README.md, before:

[![Marketplace](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/version-short/Leopotam.csharpfixformat.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Leopotam.csharpfixformat)
[![Installs](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/installs-short/Leopotam.csharpfixformat.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Leopotam.csharpfixformat)
[![Raiting](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/rating-short/Leopotam.csharpfixformat.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Leopotam.csharpfixformat)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Leopotam/vscode-csharpfixformat.svg)](https://github.com/Leopotam/vscode-csharpfixformat/issues)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Leopotam/vscode-csharpfixformat)

# CSharpFixFormat for Visual Studio Code
This extension helps to format C# code. When OmniSharp will support all features - will be deprecated.

## Features
All features available through commands menu, context menu in text editor with option "CSharp: Fix format" or through keybinding "ctrl+alt+i" after opening C# file.
  * Sort usings in alphabetical order. Doubles will be removed automatically.
  * Fix indent size for all lines (omnisharp still cant do it for wrapped lines).
  * Cleanup empty lines with allowed limit in row.

Formatting can be ignored for any code with wrapping to directives:
```
/* fixformat ignore:start */
var test    =        i().  willNotBeFormatted     []   ;
/* fixformat ignore:end */
```

## Known issues
Multiple nullable declarations cant be placed on same line, like:
```
void Test(Type1? a, Type1? b, Type1? c) { }
```
Instead of this each declaration should be placed on new line:
```
void Test(
    Type1? a,
    Type1? b,
    Type1? c) { }
```

## Release installation
Use instructions from marketplace.

## Manual installation from sources
1. Install node.js.
2. Run "npm install" from project folder.
3. Run "npm run package" from project folder.
4. Install brand new packed *.vsix bundle through vscode plugins menu option "Install from VSIX".

## Extension Settings

* `csharpfixformat.sort.usings.enabled`: Should usings be sorted or not. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.sort.usings.systemFirst`: Put System.xxx namespaces first at usings list on sorting. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.sort.usings.splitGroups`: Insert blank line between using blocks grouped by first part of namespace. False by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.enabled`: Enable code reformat with style options. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.newline.maxAmount`: Amount of new line (\\n) symbols allowed in row. 1 means no blank lines, 0 for disable. 2 by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.indent.preprocessorIgnored`: Should preprocessor directives ignore indentation or use it. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.indent.regionIgnored`: Should #region / #endregion directives ignore indentation or use it. False by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.activateDefaultFormatterAfter`: Should default code formatter be activated as post process. False by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.braces.onSameLine`: Should open braces be kept on expression line (K&R style) or on new line. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.braces.allowInlines`: Allow expressions inside braces at one line. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.beforeParenthesis`: Space before '(' - opening parenthesis. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.afterParenthesis`: Space after ')' - closing parenthesis. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.beforeIndexerBracket`: Override spaces.beforeBracket rule for indexer sequence 'this['. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.beforeBracket`: Space before '[' - opening bracket. False by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.afterBracket`: Space after ']' - closing bracket. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.insideEmptyParenthis`: Space inside '()' - empty parenthis. False by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.insideEmptyBraces`: Space inside '{}' - empty braces. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.insideEmptyBrackets`: Space inside '[]' - empty brackets. False by default.

Commit message:

* Performance fix for nested fields initialization.

README.md, after:

[![Marketplace](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/version-short/Leopotam.csharpfixformat.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Leopotam.csharpfixformat)
[![Installs](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/installs-short/Leopotam.csharpfixformat.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Leopotam.csharpfixformat)
[![Raiting](https://vsmarketplacebadge.apphb.com/rating-short/Leopotam.csharpfixformat.svg)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Leopotam.csharpfixformat)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Leopotam/vscode-csharpfixformat.svg)](https://github.com/Leopotam/vscode-csharpfixformat/issues)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Leopotam/vscode-csharpfixformat/master/LICENSE)

# CSharpFixFormat for Visual Studio Code
This extension helps to format C# code. When OmniSharp will support all features - will be deprecated.

## Dependencies
This extension not dependent on any 3dparty extensions (even omnisharp) and works as standalone formatting solution for current C#-file.

## Features
All features available through commands menu, context menu in text editor with option "CSharp: Fix format" or through keybinding "ctrl+alt+i" after opening C# file.
  * Sort usings in alphabetical order. Doubles will be removed automatically.
  * Fix indent size for all lines (omnisharp still cant do it for wrapped lines).
  * Cleanup empty lines with allowed limit in row.

Formatting can be ignored for any code with wrapping to directives:
```
/* fixformat ignore:start */
var test    =        i().  willNotBeFormatted     []   ;
/* fixformat ignore:end */
```

## Known issues
Multiple nullable declarations cant be placed on same line, like:
```
void Test(Type1? a, Type1? b, Type1? c) { }
```
Instead of this each declaration should be placed on new line:
```
void Test(
    Type1? a,
    Type1? b,
    Type1? c) { }
```

Multiline initialization for new instance as parameter for method will not be formatted correctly:
```
TestMethod (new TestClass {
    a = 10,
        b = 20
});
```
Instead of this - split variable declaration and method calling:
```
var t = new TestClass {
    a = 10,
    b = 20
};
TestMethod (t);
```

## Release installation
Use instructions from marketplace.

## Manual installation from sources
1. Install node.js.
2. Run "npm install" from project folder.
3. Run "npm run package" from project folder.
4. Install brand new packed *.vsix bundle through vscode plugins menu option "Install from VSIX".

## Extension Settings

* `csharpfixformat.sort.usings.enabled`: Should usings be sorted or not. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.sort.usings.systemFirst`: Put System.xxx namespaces first at usings list on sorting. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.sort.usings.splitGroups`: Insert blank line between using blocks grouped by first part of namespace. False by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.enabled`: Enable code reformat with style options. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.newline.maxAmount`: Amount of new line (\\n) symbols allowed in row. 1 means no blank lines, 0 for disable. 2 by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.indent.preprocessorIgnored`: Should preprocessor directives ignore indentation or use it. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.indent.regionIgnored`: Should #region / #endregion directives ignore indentation or use it. False by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.activateDefaultFormatterAfter`: Should default code formatter be activated as post process. False by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.braces.onSameLine`: Should open braces be kept on expression line (K&R style) or on new line. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.braces.allowInlines`: Allow expressions inside braces at one line. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.beforeParenthesis`: Space before '(' - opening parenthesis. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.afterParenthesis`: Space after ')' - closing parenthesis. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.beforeIndexerBracket`: Override spaces.beforeBracket rule for indexer sequence 'this['. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.beforeBracket`: Space before '[' - opening bracket. False by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.afterBracket`: Space after ']' - closing bracket. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.insideEmptyParenthis`: Space inside '()' - empty parenthis. False by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.insideEmptyBraces`: Space inside '{}' - empty braces. True by default.
* `csharpfixformat.style.spaces.insideEmptyBrackets`: Space inside '[]' - empty brackets. False by default.
